Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to explain an action, adventure,
and drama film called “The Man In The Iron
Mask."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In the 17th century, Paris is in chaos as
riots against the King continue to emerge.
As a consequence, rioters are bound to prison
to suffer a slow death because of hunger.
Among the prisoners is a mysterious inmate;
his name is unknown, so he comes by the alias
“the man in the iron mask.”
As the chaos continues, the captain of the
musketeers, D’Artagnan, patrols the streets
of the town, but the angry citizens throw
rocks at him because he still serves the King.
He used to be one of the four musketeers,
but the group has separated ways.
Porthos has become a womanizing drunkard,
while Aramis has become a priest.
The two of them live together despite their
very opposite lifestyles.
Porthos disturbs Aramis in prayer, resulting
in an argument, just as D’Artagnan enters
the room.
Both of them are delighted to see him, but
he informs his two former colleagues that
he comes in the name of the King, who wishes
to summon Porthos and Aramis immediately.
The fourth musketeer, Athos, peacefully lives
with his only son, Raoul, who also aspires
to be a musketeer.
He entrusts his wife’s ring for Raoul to
propose with it to his love interest.
France is under the reign of King Louis the
14th, a militaristic leader who enjoys grandeurs.
While going about his day of preparing a battle
plan for war, one of his chief advisers, Pierre,
informs him that riots are happening in the
city.
Pierre adds that the people are starving and
that they could distribute the food reserved
for the army as a solution.
At that moment, Aramis responds to the King’s
call and arrives at the palace.
King Louis welcomes him and informs the former
musketeer that he wants him to find out who
the secret leader of the Jesuits is, someone
who is a threat to the people’s loyalty
to the crown.
King Louis adds that when Aramis finds out
the leader’s identity, he must kill him
in the name of God and France.
Hesitantly, Aramis accepts the mission, knowing
that he might end up in an unfortunate situation
if he refuses.
The King shifts his attention to Pierre’s
concerns about the people rioting for food.
As a solution, he orders Pierre to send them
rotten food.
At the palace festival, Raoul is joined by
Christine Bellefort, the woman he intends
to marry.
The King gets a glimpse of the couple from
the palace window and asks for the woman’s
name.
Christine’s beauty captivates the King,
and just as Raoul is about to propose, they
are interrupted by a game hosted by the King.
A piglet is brought for the guests to catch,
where the winner’s prize is a piece of jewelry.
Everyone participates in the game, but Christine
fails to join as she is trapped in the nearby
garden because of the fountains.
The one behind the fountains being set off
is King Louis, who sees the game as a perfect
opportunity to talk to the beautiful lady.
Christine looks around the palace, searching
for another exit when King Louis sneaks from
behind and opens a conversation.
From a distance, D’Artagnan is secretly
listening to their conversation.
King Louis confesses his interest in Christine,
but she lets the King know that she loves
Raoul and is faithfully committed to him,
but the King pays no attention to what she
says and proceeds to kiss her.
However, D’Artagnan pushes the pig toward
their direction to interrupt the moment.
Out of nowhere, a spy runs from behind and
attempts to assassinate the King; luckily,
D’Artagnan is under strict supervision and
manages to throw his sword, killing the spy.
Raoul rescues Christine from the scene, and
they flee.
Queen Anne, the King’s mother, is a very
religious woman; she visits the chapel as
often as she can and says her prayers.
That day, she passes by D’Artagnan’s room
to personally express her gratitude for saving
her son’s life.
The conversation briefly ends after the musketeer
humbly says that it is simply his job.
Moments later, he is informed that Raoul has
withdrawn his request to join the musketeers,
which raises suspicions in D’Artagnan.
He visits Athos in his home to seek answers,
where they happily embrace each other after
not seeing each other for a long time.
While they drink wine together, Raoul enters
in a melancholic mood.
His father comes to ask him what is wrong,
but he returns the ring and informs him that
the proposal is cancelled because he is sent
back to the battlefront.
Athos suspects that the King has arranged
the assignment of Raoul back to war so that
he could have Christine all to himself.
Accepting his fate, Raoul walks up to his
room as Athos gets agitated about D’Artagnan
remaining loyal to the greedy King.
At the palace, a commotion happens as the
people of Paris attack the musketeers all
over the city for distributing rotten food.
Some musketeers get beaten, and some run back
to the gates for refuge.
D’Artagnan instructs them to hold fire as
he makes his way outside to talk to the people.
They yell at him, refusing to listen to any
word he says, as they know that he is a king’s
officer.
An apple and a tomato are thrown at him, but
he successfully slices and catches it with
his sword mid-air.
This gains the people’s attention and respect,
making them listen to him.
He assures the townsfolk that he will speak
to the King himself and bring up the issue
about food.
The people return to town in an orderly manner,
and D’Artagnan makes his way to a secret
passage to inform the King that fresh food
should be given to the people.
On a personal note, he asks about Christine
and his intentions toward her; King Louis
annoyingly replies that he is still King and
the one in charge despite being a young king.
After the meeting, King Louis assigns a new
chief advisor and orders Pierre to be killed
after distributing rotten food, which was
his order.
He also reminds them that he gives them the
authority to shoot the people who participate
in riots.
The day of battle begins, where Raoul fights
at the front.
Before advancing to the enemy’s headquarters,
he hands a letter to another officer and kindly
asks him to take it to the royal dispatches.
As he leads the ground troops, a dutch cannon
fires right at the moment, resulting in his
instant death.
Meanwhile, a letter is slipped on Christine’s
door.
She opens the letter and reads that Raoul
has sadly died.
The news breaks her into tears, as well as
Athos, who receives the same news.
His son's death sends him into a fit of rage,
making him go to the palace to confront the
King.
D’Artagnan sees his friend and proceeds
to calm him down, but Athos fights him and
the other musketeers around.
To control the commotion, D’Artagnan knocks
him to the ground, begging him not to act
insanely after the tragedy experienced by
his son.
This puts a strain on their friendship; Athos
walks away after calling D’Artagnan a traitor
for siding with his son’s killer.
In the palace, King Louis invites Christine
to have a romantic dinner.
Despite all the grandeur, Christine’s heart
is filled with grief and sadness after the
death of Raoul.
She could not bring herself to take a single
bite of her food, but the King comforts her
by saying that he only desires her comfort
and happiness.
To seduce Christine, King Louis brings her
into a room, but she hesitates to give him
what he wants.
Finally, the King manages to get into her
mind and make her give in to his desires;
that night, they share an intimate moment
as she spends the night in the palace.
In a secret mission assigned by the King to
Aramis, he gathers his former colleagues to
have a secret meeting.
He explains that the Jesuits are against King
Louis’ wars and the starvation of the people.
Additionally, he says that the King has ordered
him to kill the leader of the Jesuits, but
the thing is, he is the Jesuit's secret leader
and has a plan to depose King Louis.
His three friends look at him in utter disbelief,
but Athos and Porthos agree to take part in
his plans.
D’Artagnan, on the other hand, stands by
his oath to be of service to the crown.
Athos despises him for being loyal to a dishonorable
king and threatens him with death should they
ever meet again.
Back in the palace, King Louis informs D’Artagnan
that the three former musketeers are missing
and asks if he thinks that his friends are
a threat to the crown.
Subtly defending his friends, D’Artagnan
does all he can to drive the King’s attention
away from them, but he orders him to track
them down.
The dilemma of staying loyal to service or
his friendship stresses D’Artagnan out,
leaving him clueless on his next course of
action.
During a full moon, the man in the iron mask
longingly looks at the sky, wondering when
he can witness the great outdoors freely.
In the island prison, the three former musketeers
sneak in with disguises.
Aramis manages to enter after pretending to
be an Italian priest.
He carries a corpse in a similar iron mask
inside his ample cloak to replace the prisoner
with.
He alerts the guard that the man in the iron
mask has been plague-infested.
This urges the guard to act quickly and burn
the body before it could further infect anyone.
Aramis carefully makes his way out of the
prison while carrying the real man in the
iron mask with him.
The group safely docks their boat into shore
and makes their way to a safe house in the
countryside.
In an attempt to reveal the man’s identity,
they unmask him and find out that the man
behind the mask is the King’s identical
twin brother, Philippe.
Athos assists him to a room where Philippe
tells him that he used to live in a farmhouse
when people took him into prison and has been
bound to an iron mask since then.
Two men enter the room two clean Philippe
and fix his appearance.
The three of them watch him in complete disbelief
and amazement when he enters the kitchen,
looking like the King himself.
Aramis finally reveals to him his true identity;
his mother, Queen Anne, gave birth to twins,
and their father, King Louis the 13th, made
one of them disappear to avoid dynastic warfare
between his sons.
His father ordered Philippe’s true identity
hidden; only on his death day did he reveal
to Queen Anne and King Louis about Philippe.
As a mother, the Queen wanted to restore Philippe's
birthright, but the greedy King imprisoned
him to preserve his power and put him in the
iron mask to conceal his identity, an act
that Aramis executed.
Regretful about it, Aramis asks for forgiveness
and wishes to redeem himself by replacing
Louis with the more benevolent Philippe.
Porthos and Athos contradict his plan, saying
that it is too dangerous, but Philippe fails
to answer just yet.
In the palace, King Louis receives the news
about his brother through a letter.
He orders his servants to let his mother know
of the tragic fate experienced by his twin
before opening a box where the iron mask lies.
He is filled with horror after looking at
it and imagining what it is like to live a
masked life.
The Queen runs to the chapel to express her
grief in front of the altar.
For comfort, D'Artagnan approaches and offers
her his embrace.
It is revealed that the two used to have an
affair until the musketeer has chosen to remain
loyal to the crown.
For the following days, the group encourages
Philippe to take part in their plan, but he
refuses to pretend to be anyone else.
He wants to have complete freedom in his life,
including choosing to be who he wants to be.
Eventually, he agrees after realizing that
he wants to share a common goal with the musketeers,
which is to aspire to a better country to
serve the people rightfully.
The three tutor Philippe on courtly life,
including how to combat, dress, and act like
the King.
His days are filled with lessons that the
group patiently teaches.
Meanwhile, Christine is living a majestic
life after living with the King.
While she gets ready for an event, her servant
brings her a letter, which she finds out is
from Raoul.
He wrote the letter predicting his death for
being sent to battle and telling Christine
that he forgives her for being the King’s
mistress.
Tearfully, she reflects on his words and suspects
the King for orchestrating Raoul’s death.
He confronts King Louis about it that night,
but he dismisses her thoughts and acts indifferent
toward her feelings.
Aramis leaves for the palace and seeks to
talk to Queen Anne.
In a confessional, he informs the Queen that
there is still hope for the poor Philippe.
Her eyes fill with hope after hearing the
words of Aramis.
Days later, the palace hosts a masquerade
ball, where guests are dressed in elegant
attires as they dance.
Aramis, Porthos, Athos, and Philippe disguise
themselves as guests at the party, waiting
for the perfect opportunity to plot their
mission.
King Louis sees a guest in an iron mask for
a split second and is disturbed by the sight
of it.
As he continues dancing, he sees the iron
mask once again, which is held by Aramis.
Repeatedly, he sees the mask, which sends
him to his room after not feeling well.
The group uses the secret passages to get
to the King’s room quickly, where he lays
in bed.
He turns to see the three musketeers approaching,
and he is knocked unconscious.
Moments later, he gains consciousness back
and sees Philippe along with the group.
Their clothes are exchanged, and Porthos restrains
him by tying his mouth and covering his head.
Nervously, Philippe makes his way back to
the party, all dressed as the King, while
Athos looks at him proudly and starts to develop
paternal feelings toward him.
Philippe walks to the throne in the ballroom
and feels powerful for the first time in his
life.
Suspicions grow among the people as he helps
one guest up after tripping in front of him,
revealing his good nature.
Queen Anne dramatically makes her entrance
to the party, and Philippe sees her for the
first time.
They subtly express their happiness to reunite
again, and the Queen’s maid shares the joy
of knowing that Philippe is alive.
D’Artagnan realizes something is amiss;
he checks the King’s room and heads back
to the ballroom to check on him.
Out of nowhere, Christine disrupts the party
by calling the King a murderer and accusing
him of being responsible for Raoul’s death.
Instead of punishing her, he orders the guards
to lay hands off her; he further asks for
forgiveness and promises to make amends.
The unexpected response from the King raises
suspicions in D’Artagnan and orders all
palace musketeers to be on full alert.
He instructs Philippe to follow him to the
underground dock, to which he refuses, but
D’artagnan insists, so he follows.
Meanwhile, the three musketeers make their
way to the port where their boat awaits.
Before they could leave, palace musketeers
start attacking them, but they successfully
get rid of them.
Their expertise in battle has not faded after
all these years, but unfortunately, the gate
closes before them and the boat.
The musketeers led by D’Artagnan now outnumber
the group; they take a moment to look at each
other and reflect on their friendship.
Athos holds King Louis and frees him of the
sack, revealing that the King has a twin.
The men decide to trade for the brothers'
lives; however, Philippe is re-captured in
the ensuing chaos of their escape.
As the three musketeers are able to sail away,
Philippe’s life is in danger once again.
Inside the palace, King Louis observes Philippe’s
appearance and tells Athos that the man standing
before him is not an impostor but his twin
instead.
The Queen enters the room and embraces Philippe,
which puts King Louis in a state of jealousy.
He hits Philippe, but D’Artagnan pleads
with Louis to spare his twin’s life and
show mercy.
Philippe begs to be executed rather than sent
back to prison.
King Louis, hardened in his anger against
all three of them, orders him placed back
in prison and once again in the mask.
As D’Artagnan comforts the distressed Queen
Anne, they hear a faint scream from a room,
where they find out that Christine has sadly
taken her life.
The King enters the room to find her hanging
from the window, where the sight of it angers
him even more.
Meanwhile, Philippe is escorted to his cell,
and an iron mask is placed on him once again.
The special key for the mask is handed over
to King Louis to ensure the entrapment of
his twin.
Amidst the chaos encircling the whole town,
the three musketeers find refuge in a room,
where they find a letter from D’Artagnan
instructing them about the whereabouts of
Philippe.
Athos, Porthos, and Aramis unearth their old
musketeer uniforms, becoming The Three Musketeers
again and, with D'Artagnan's help, break into
the prison and escape with Philippe.
D’Artagnan reunites with them, to make amends.
Louis, however, has prepared an ambush to
arrest the group that plots to put an end
to his reign.
Just like the old days, the four musketeers
stand side by side in battle as King Louis’
guards charge at them.
They fight skillfully and manage to protect
themselves despite being outnumbered.
More soldiers arrive to entrap and beat them,
but they refuse to surrender.
Philippe begs the four musketeers to give
him up so they could spare their lives, but
D’Artagnan soon reveals that Philippe and
Louis are his sons.
Having had an affair with Queen Anne, she
bore twins, and that it was out of fatherly
devotion that he served Louis, despite his
evilness.
All of them are astonished to hear his revelation,
which gives them more determination to fight
back.
Preparing to accept their fate, no matter
how painful it may be, they put their swords
together and say the phrase “all for one,
and one for all.”
Philippe joins them, and they all stand to
prepare for battle.
The palace musketeers point their guns at
them, as defense, covering their King.
The four Musketeers and Philippe make their
final attack at Louis' front line, where their
bravery astound the soldiers into immobility,
provoking Louis to shout orders to fire.
He puts his hands on one of the soldiers'
weapons and fires, setting off the rest, with
many of them shutting their eyes or looking
away out of reluctance.
The smoke clears and reveals that the five
men managed to dodge all the bullets.
All the musketeers express their respect to
the former ones.
King Louis attacks Philippe with a dagger
out of anger, but D’Artagnan stands in his
way and gets stabbed instead.
Philippe knocks Louis to the ground and begins
to strangle him, but D'Artagnan reminds Philippe
that Louis is his brother and says the musketeer
phrase one last time.
The crying Philippe grieves his father's death,
but moments later, he swaps clothes and locks
Louis into the iron mask.
Philippe announces Athos, Porthos, and Aramis
as his royal advisors.
Posing as the King, Philippe commands the
guards to take Louis and imprison him forever.
The Musketeers show their respect and kneel
before Philippe, honoring him as their true
King.
At daybreak, they all attend D’Artagnan’s
funeral to say their final goodbyes peacefully.
After the funeral, Philippe kindly asks Athos
to love him like his own son, and Athos accepts,
kissing Philippe's hand.
Then, the Three Musketeers walk through the
long line of proud saluting musketeers, idolizing
the three.
After that, France is reborn after having
a better king who gave his people food, prosperity,
and peace.